---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Beyond Software Engineering
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-05-11
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Programming
---

## What Exactly Does it Mean to Practice Software Engineering?

Discussing the process of learning a set of skills with most people will often boil down to whether or not you can do it or not, especially if the person has zero interest or knowledge in the subject. To them, the end result is the most important thing, when in reality there's much more to that. Of course being able to do the skill is still important, it's just that there's a lot more to talk about, such as how it relates to other things. Many times I find that I know how to do something not because I was taught about it, but rather because I'm able to compare it to a similar situation I already know about and I am able to adapt. Software engineering is no different. Most conversations I have about software engineering with others not studying computers or programming boil down to "can you make X", or "can you fix Y". Putting aside the fact that many of things I'm asked about has nothing to actually do with programming, all they see is that I can make something, and not how software engineering concepts have improved my ability to work.

## Working Smarter, Not Harder.

An issue I often run into is overcomplicating problems that I work on. I'll spend five hours on an issue only to find out that I was given the answer from the start. It's like inventing a way to carry heavy objects in a store, only to realize they have shopping carts. It's not entirely wrong to do things the hard way, and in some cases doing it the easy way is considered wrong and even cheating, but if no one cares or they expect you to use the shortcut, then doing everything by scratch ends up wasting a lot of time. In comes functional programing. Functional programming is a type of programming where a program is made up of existing functions. The main one we used is Underscore, which has a number of functions that can be used to access and modify data from things like arrays and objects. Normally, to do something like take an array of numbers and only leave even numbers, you would need to loop through the entire array, check if the current number is an even number, remove it if necessary, or depending on how you do it add the even number to a new array. Whereas if you use Underscore, it contains a filter function that takes an array, takes a function like return true or false if a number is even, and returns an array with only the elements that follow the function. Instead of doing it manually, there is a convenient tool to use. This doesn't only apply to programming, this applies to many things. Like using power tools like a power saw to build a fence instead of using manuel tools like a hand saw. Or making art online using a tablet instead of drawing on paper and taking a picture. Whether or not you use it depends on the issue, but functional programming, despite the name, has applications that can be used outside of programming.

## Splitting Problems Into Sections

Another issue I often run into and have difficulties with is working in an organized manner. It's that issue where you start working on a problem and by the end of the day you're stuck working on five different problems at the same time. People often say that if you get stuck working on a problem, then move on to a different problem and come back to it later. And while that can be a good strategy, the amount of time before you decide that you're stuck can vary from person to person, to the point where you're switching every 5 seconds. Part of that has to do with not knowing which parts to focus on. Some projects need things to be finished in a specific order, and often has parts that should not be done at the same time. Thankfully, that's where Project Management comes in. The type of Project Management depends on the project, but I'm going to focus on Agile Project Management. Agile Project Management is meant for projects where you want to be able to add new, working solutions to a project that are focus and tested within a small time frame. In terms of software development, it's working on small parts of a program like a single function or piece of UI one, or more if it's a group project, at a time, where you test each addition while you're working on it before adding it to the final project once it's finished and tested. This is also known as Issue Driven Project Management, where each part is an issue to be solved before deciding what to work on next. The goal is to focus on a small set of problems before working on new ones. This concept doesn't just apply to software engineering, it could apply to any project. Like say you want to build a device that does five different things. Instead of smashing five different devices together, you should work on each function separately to make sure they work and that you understand how the function, and then slowly work towards a unified design. You're not going to have the best design at first, but the important part is to slowly make your way there, solving problems as they come up. You won't always know every problem from the start, but by working step-by-step you should be able to solve then when they show up.
